---
title: Nuxt
description: Server-Side Rendering with Nuxt

navigation:
  badge: New
---

::callout{icon="i-twemoji-party-popper"}

This feature is new and experimental. Please report any issues you find on [`GitHub`](https://github.com/Dave136/vue-email/issues). Note this feature is only available on version `0.6.0` and above, please update your package to use it.
::

## Introduction

`Vue Email` can be used with [nuxt](https://nuxt.com/) to render and send emails from the nuxt server.

Now, you need to install the `@vue-email/nuxt` package.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}

For versions `0.7.2` and below, you will need to extract the nuxt package from `vue-email` using the syntax `vue-email/nuxt`.
::

## Installation

To use `Vue Email` you need to install the `@vue-email/nuxt` package.

### Config

The `useCompiler` method takes two arguments, the first is the name of the template file, and the second is an optional props object.

```ts
import { useCompiler } from '#vue-email'

const template = await useCompiler('WelcomeEmail.vue', {
    props: {
      username: 'John Doe',
    }
})

```

To configure the compiler, you can use the `nuxt.config.ts` file, and add your global config to the `vueEmail` key as shown in the [Nuxt config](/getting-started/installation#options) 

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
Your Email templates must be located in the `~/emails` directory. at the root of your nuxt project.
They will also be auto imported in ur nuxt project, so you dont have to add them to the `components` nuxt config.
::


### Example

in this example we will use `Nuxt.js` to render and view an email.

::code-group

```ts [Nuxt 3]
import { useCompiler } from '#vue-email'

export default defineEventHandler(async () => {
  try {
    const template = await useCompiler('WelcomeEmail.vue', {
      props: {
        username: 'John Doe',
      }
    })

    if (!template) {
      throw createError({
        statusCode: 404,
        statusMessage: 'Not Found',
      })
    }

    return template
  }
  catch (error) {
    console.error(error)

    throw createError({
      statusCode: 500,
      statusMessage: 'Internal Server Error',
    })
  }
})

```

::

## Sending Emails

Once you have rendered your email template, you can send it using any email provider you like.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle"}
`Vue Email` does not provide any email sending functionality, you will need to use a third party email provider to send your emails, check the integration section for more information. [Integrations](/integrations/mailersend)
::

## Bugs and Issues

If you encounter any bugs or issues, feel free to [open an issue at `GitHub`](https://github.com/Dave136/vue-email/issues)
